---
layout:     post
title:      "Project Proposal"
subtitle:   "Team Neural Olin"
date:       2016-04-03
author:     "David, Patrick, and Philip"
header-img: "img/post-bg-03.jpg"
---


## Who is on the team?

David Abrahams, Patrick Huston, Philip Seger

## In a couple of paragraphs, describe the key ideas of your proposed project?  What is your MVP?  What are your stretch goals?

Our initial idea was to look into Twitter and stock market data relations, using time-series reflection and sentiment analysis. However, there was quite a lot of noise (for both datasets), so we decided that it might be more interesting to try something else. This something else is neural networks. We want to spend time looking into the algorithms behind it, learning some of the logic. Along with that, we would like to come up with some implementation of one, to show our understanding. Along with that, we want to end by implementing with a dataset of some variety, to see how successful we may have been or see what might happen. This last bit will most likely include time-series exploration, as we were interested in that with the previous Twitter project idea.

## To the best of your current knowledge, what datasets will you use for your project?  Are there any obstacles you foresee in terms of getting access to the data?

We plan on not starting by looking into a dataset, but more so looking into how neural network algorithms work in Python. We eventually plan on implementing along a time-series dataset, but are not sure about what specific dataset we are going to look into.

## What are the most important new skills / techniques you will have to learn to be successful in this project?  If you think some of these skills would be useful for us to cover in class, please indicate which ones.

In the course of this project, we will have to learn several key skills:

1. Learning from papers and publications. Neural networks include quite a bit of math, so we are going to have to learn a lot of that side of things.

2. Practice implementations and learn as we go. This is a completely new area for all of us, and involves thinking not just about the code but more about what the code is doing multiple recursions down, so we are going to be doing a lot of trying new things.

## Outline a rough timeline for the major milestones of your project.  This will mainly be useful to refer back to as we move through the project.

3/25 - Project proposal due

3/27 - If unable to get historical Twitter data, start collecting our own data from Twitter

3/29 - Have an example dataset, begin cleaning (continue collecting data if needed)

4/1 - Pivot to neural networks

4/5 - Working on learning how a neural network works/is implemented

4/8 - Implementing and working on our neural network

4/12 - Continued development

4/15 - CODE REVIEW

4/19 - Look into possible datasets to explore

4/22 - Continue learning/implementing net and exploring datasets

4/26 - Continue everything

4/29 - Final code review, along with cleaning up bugs and making sure everything is set

5/3 - Expo presentation of what we worked on

5/4 - Final documentation added to the repo

## What do you view as the biggest risks to you being successful on this project?

The biggest obstacle would likely be the fact that we have little idea of what we are doing going into this. Neural networks are a popular topic now however, which helps in that there is a ton of documentation and information to guide us. It will still be difficult, and will require a lot of reading and study.

## Given each of your YOGAs (see here), in what ways is this project well-aligned with these goals, and in what ways is it misaligned?  If there are ways in which it is not well-aligned, please provide a potential strategy for bringing the project and your learning goals into better alignment. **(Might be outdated because of pivot.)**

### Patrick

This project seems to align very well with my goals. My primary goal is to spend more time looking at outside research papers and contributions made from the community, which is well-aligned with this project in particular. There’s a lot of prior research that has been done in this space, and I’ve already found some great papers that have been just challenging enough such that I can gain a lot from them with some investment of time. Additionally, there seems to be a good amount of room for me to get better at documentation over the course of the project. There’s a lot to learn, a lot to do, which should indicate that there will be a lot to document. 

### David

This project aligns well with my goals, specifically my last two. My second goal is to do something impactful in the professional sense. My goal was to create something that has concrete value that is applicable in industry, and doing stock market analysis is extremely valuable. This project will also definitely provide me the opportunity to expand my skillset. There’s a ton of complex math that can be done with the stock market, and definitely an opportunity to utilize a breadth of different models. There is also room to learn about sentiment analysis. I’m not entirely sure what the final product would be for this project yet, but whether we create a website or notebook or something else, I’m sure we’ll create something professional.

### Philip

This project will follow along with what my goals state quite closely. Given the amount of time, and our proposed schedule, we should have enough time to create a proper codebase that is largely bug free and accurately conveys the information we are looking into. On top of that, the project is jumping into fairly new territory for the whole team, which means we are going to have to learn new methods for visualization and building models. The only challenge I foresee in relation to my goals is how much we are able to accomplish. Our general plan as of right now is manually collecting Twitter data, running sentiment analysis on individual tweets to build a general idea of what is being said, build a dataset from that, create a dataset from stock data, then begin working on the two. Right out of the gate, this is complex, but it should be really interesting and challenging, which I am also excited about. 